articles/2014-03-28-Secure-Development-Training-Coming-To-Portland.md, before:

#date: 2014-03-28 00:04:34 GMT
#slug: Secure-Node.js-Training-Coming-to-Portland
#tags: security, education, training, node.js, enterprise
#title: The 1st Node.js Secure Development Training is coming to Portland
#author: Lift Security Team
#type: text

The team has been hard at work designing a great training experience and we are proud to announce that the first live edition of the [Node.js Secure Development Training](https://liftsecurity.io/training) will be on April 30, in Portland, OR.

[Reserve your seat today](https://ti.to/lift-security/node-sec-dev-portland?release_id=z0ke5wqhfcs) as this event will have extremely limited seating!

We've designed this training to help you understand security challenges you will face developing node.js web applications and build habits that turn security from a worry or an annoyance into a comfortable part of your code from the very beginning.

![](/images/articles/matt_quote.png)

You will learn about the following:

- Approaches for building securely with both Hapi and Express
- Authentication, Authorization and Session Management
- Handling Sensitive Data
- Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
- Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
- SQL Injection / Command Injection
- Directory Traversal
- Mass Assignment
- Security Headers
- Security Misconfiguration
- Using the Node Security Project to identify known vulnerabilities

![](/images/articles/portland.png)

A Training ticket includes:

- Full day of Training
- Morning Coffee
- Catered Lunch
- Afternoon Coffee Break
- After Training Social

If you can't attend this training and you would like it to happen in your area or bring it to your dev team, please let us know by sending an email to training@liftsecurity.io

Commit message:

added the link one more time and changed put as April 1st

articles/2014-03-28-Secure-Development-Training-Coming-To-Portland.md, after:

#date: 2014-03-28 00:04:34 GMT
#slug: Secure-Node.js-Training-Coming-to-Portland
#tags: security, education, training, node.js, enterprise
#title: The 1st Node.js Secure Development Training is coming to Portland
#author: Lift Security Team
#type: text

The team has been hard at work designing a great training experience and we are proud to announce that the first live edition of the [Node.js Secure Development Training](https://liftsecurity.io/training) will be on April 30, in Portland, OR.

[Tickets are going to be released on April 1st, register your interest today!](https://ti.to/lift-security/node-sec-dev-portland) As this event will have extremely limited seating!

We've designed this training to help you understand security challenges you will face developing node.js web applications and build habits that turn security from a worry or an annoyance into a comfortable part of your code from the very beginning.

![](/images/articles/matt_quote.png)

You will learn about the following:

- Approaches for building securely with both Hapi and Express
- Authentication, Authorization and Session Management
- Handling Sensitive Data
- Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
- Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
- SQL Injection / Command Injection
- Directory Traversal
- Mass Assignment
- Security Headers
- Security Misconfiguration
- Using the Node Security Project to identify known vulnerabilities

![](/images/articles/portland.png)

A Training ticket includes:

- Full day of Training
- Morning Coffee
- Catered Lunch
- Afternoon Coffee Break
- After Training Social

[Register your interest today!](https://ti.to/lift-security/node-sec-dev-portland)

If you can't attend this training and you would like it to happen in your area or bring it to your dev team, please let us know by sending an email to training@liftsecurity.io
